# robot-configuration-webpage-2
Deployed site: <a>https://robot-configuration-webpage-2.vercel.app/</a> <br />
Vercel home: <a>https://vercel.com/rhysfaultless/robot-configuration-webpage-2</a> <br />

## running on a local machine
1. clone this repository
2. in a terminal, navigate to the repository on your local machine, and then run:
  1. `npm install next react react-dom`
  2. `npm run dev`

## deploying on Vercel
This proccess is rather simple. The Production Deployment on Vercel uses the code on this Github repositories `main` branch. 
Vercel uses the information in this repositorie's `package.json` to build the site properly.
You can test code by:
1. creating a new bracnh on Github
2. make changes as necessary, and then locally build the project using `npm run build` to find errors
3. assuming the local build went well, push the changes to Github
4. Then, no the Vercel deashboard, you should see a Preview Deplyment being built.
5. This Preview Deployment will have a Visit option in its hamburger menu so you can confirm that the site looks correct
6. There shouldnt be any errors since you tested with a local build. Any errors could be related to issues with the `package.json'
7. Once you are happy that the Preview Deployment looks good; merge the development branch into the main branch.
8. Vercel will build again, and the Production Deployment should show the changes.


## adding a new attachment process
1. Using Solidworks: 
  1. Create a SLDPRT of the attachment with the origin centred at (0, 0, 0,) .
    The ground plane is to be the X-Y plane.
  2. Export the model as an `STL` surface model.
2. Using Blender: 
  1. Import the STL model.
  2. Export as `gITF 2.0 (.glb/.gltf)`
  3. name the file the same as your STL, such as `attachment-hokuyo.glb`
  4. Copy this file to the correct folder in the RCW project, `/public/models/`
3. In a web browser like Google Chrome:
  1. Open the website [https://gltf.pmnd.rs/](https://gltf.pmnd.rs/)
  2. Drag-and-drop your `.glb` file that was created in step 2.3. into the browser
  3. The webpage will now show a rendering of your model, and some JavaScript code. 
    Keep this page open as you will copy the JavaScript code into our project shortly. 
4. In VS Code:
  1. Create a JavaScript file in the project directory `/components/three-models/`.
    Name this new file with a similar scheme to your model but using PascalCase, such as `AttachmentHokuyo.js`.
    This example would have a file with the path `/components/three-models/AttachmentHokuyo.js`
  2. Copy the webpage code from step 3.3.
  3. Paste this code into your new JavaScript file that was created in step 4.1.
  4. change line 10:
    * from: `const { nodes, materials } = useGLTF('/attachment-hokuyo.glb')`
    * to:   `const { nodes, materials } = useGLTF('/models/attachment-hokuyo.glb')`
    Note: your file will have a different name than this example of `attachment-hokuyo.glb`.
  5. change line 23:
    * from: `useGLTF.preload('/attachment-hokuyo.glb')`
    * to:   `useGLTF.preload('/models/attachment-hokuyo.glb')`
    Note: your file will have a different name than this example of `attachment-hokuyo.glb`.
  6. Optonal: you can add more parameters to your three.js model by adding to the `<mesh />`.
    For example, you could add a colour to the model by adding `color={props.modelColour}` to the `<mesh />` component.
    Here is the full JavaScript code of the example component:
    ```javascript
    /*
    Auto-generated by: https://github.com/pmndrs/gltfjsx
    */
    
    import React, { useRef } from 'react'
    import { useGLTF } from '@react-three/drei'
    
    export default function Model(props) {
      const group = useRef()
      const { nodes, materials } = useGLTF('/models/attachment-hokuyo.glb')
      return (
        <group ref={group} {...props} dispose={null}>
          <mesh
            castShadow
            receiveShadow
            geometry={nodes['attachment-hokuyo'].geometry}
            material={nodes['attachment-hokuyo'].material}
            color={props.modelColour}
          />
        </group>
      )
    }

    useGLTF.preload('/attachment-hokuyo.glb')
    ```